README.md, before:

### Project description 

![](https://svgshare.com/i/euv.svg)


### Pangoro: powerful Python data cleaning toolkit
## What is it?
**Pangoro** is a Python package that provides fast and flexible methods for cleaning numerical and categorical features in a dataframe. It aims to be a fundamental tool for doing data wrangling in Python.

### Main Features:
* For numerical features, pangoro provides the following tools:
  * Handle NA, drop, replace with mean, replace with mode, lamda function, replace with a number, replace with min replace with max, Use KNN classifications. Keep
  * Handle outliers, Keep, Percentile
  * Scaling, standard or min max
  * Convert to nuemerical
  * Scan and apply to all numerical or supply a list of features
* For categorical nominal features, pangoro provides the following tools:
  * Handle NA, Drop, replace with mode, use KNN classification for imputation.
  * Replace with sequence numbers based on supplied dictionary or based on alphabetical order.
  * Scan and apply to all Categorical or supply a list of features
  
### Where to get it:
The source code is currently hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/ieuTeamD/pangoro)<br />
Binary installers for the latest released version are available at the Python Package Index [PyPi](https://pypi.org/project/pangoro/)<br />

~~~
pip install pangoro
~~~
### Usage

#### 1. Import

Import what you need from the pangoro package. The choices are:
 ``PangoroDataFrame``, a class for cleaning numerical and categorical features in a dataframe in addition to plotting features correlations.

For this demonstration, we will import:

    >>> from pangoro.preprocessing import PangoroDataFrame

For these examples, we'll also use pandas to :

    >>> import pandas as pd

#### 2. Load some Data

Typicall data will is read from a tabular formatted file, but for illustration we'll create a simple dataframe from a Python dict:

    >>> sample_data = pd.DataFrame({'pet':      ['cat', 'dog', 'dog', pd.NA, 'cat', 'dog', 'cat', 'fish'],
                           'color': ['white', 'brown', 'black', 'gold', pd.NA,'black', 'white', 'silver'],
                           'weight':   [50.5, 22.5, 4, pd.NA , 12, 39, 16, pd.NA]})
    >>> sample_data['weight'] = pd.to_numeric(sample_data['weight'])
    >>> sample_data.dtypes

                           
#### 3. Create Instance and Apply Transformation

3.1 We will start by creating an instance of PangoroDataFrame using the created sample_data DataFrame above:

    >>> pdf = PangoroDataFrame(sample_data)

3.2 Then, we will automate cleaning of numerical features in PangoroDataFrame by replacing NAs with mean and without performing any scaling:

    >>> pdf.numerical_transformation(col = ['weight'], na_treat = 'mean', out_treat = True, out_upper = 0.8,
                             out_lower = 0.2, scaling='no', knn_neighbors = 0)

### License
[MIT](https://pypi.org/project/pangoro/)

### Background
Work on pangoro started in 2022 by a group of IE University students and has been under active development since then.

### Contributing to pangoro  
All contributions, bug reports, bug fixes, documentation improvements, enhancements, and ideas are welcome.
Please contact us on [GitHub](https://github.com/ieuTeamD/pangoro)<br />

Commit message:

updated usage with help subsection

README.md, after:

### Project description 

![](https://svgshare.com/i/euv.svg)


### Pangoro: powerful Python data cleaning toolkit
## What is it?
**Pangoro** is a Python package that provides fast and flexible methods for cleaning numerical and categorical features in a dataframe. It aims to be a fundamental tool for doing data wrangling in Python.

### Main Features:
* For numerical features, pangoro provides the following tools:
  * Handle NA, drop, replace with mean, replace with mode, lamda function, replace with a number, replace with min replace with max, Use KNN classifications. Keep
  * Handle outliers, Keep, Percentile
  * Scaling, standard or min max
  * Convert to nuemerical
  * Scan and apply to all numerical or supply a list of features
* For categorical nominal features, pangoro provides the following tools:
  * Handle NA, Drop, replace with mode, use KNN classification for imputation.
  * Replace with sequence numbers based on supplied dictionary or based on alphabetical order.
  * Scan and apply to all Categorical or supply a list of features
  
### Where to get it:
The source code is currently hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/ieuTeamD/pangoro)<br />
Binary installers for the latest released version are available at the Python Package Index [PyPi](https://pypi.org/project/pangoro/)<br />

~~~
pip install pangoro
~~~
### Usage

#### 1. Import

Import what you need from the pangoro package. The choices are:
 ``PangoroDataFrame``, a class for cleaning numerical and categorical features in a dataframe in addition to plotting features correlations.

For this demonstration, we will import:

    >>> from pangoro.preprocessing import PangoroDataFrame

For these examples, we'll also use pandas to :

    >>> import pandas as pd

#### 2. Load some Data

Typicall data will is read from a tabular formatted file, but for illustration we'll create a simple dataframe from a Python dict:

    >>> sample_data = pd.DataFrame({'pet':      ['cat', 'dog', 'dog', pd.NA, 'cat', 'dog', 'cat', 'fish'],
                           'color': ['white', 'brown', 'black', 'gold', pd.NA,'black', 'white', 'silver'],
                           'weight':   [50.5, 22.5, 4, pd.NA , 12, 39, 16, pd.NA]})
    >>> sample_data['weight'] = pd.to_numeric(sample_data['weight'])
    >>> sample_data.dtypes

                           
#### 3. Create Instance and Apply Transformation

3.1 We will start by creating an instance of PangoroDataFrame using the created sample_data DataFrame above:

    >>> pdf = PangoroDataFrame(sample_data)

3.2 Then, we will automate cleaning of numerical features in PangoroDataFrame by replacing NAs with mean and without performing any scaling:

    >>> pdf.numerical_transformation(col = ['weight'], na_treat = 'mean', out_treat = True, out_upper = 0.8,
                             out_lower = 0.2, scaling='no', knn_neighbors = 0)

Similarly, as we continue with this example and using **pdf** as an instance **PangoroDataFrame** we can apply the other functions to clean and preprocess categorical ordinal by calling **_pdf.categorical_ordinal_transformation_** or categorical nominal by calling **_pdf.categorical_ordinal_transformation_** 

In addition, we can quickly plot correlations between features by calling: **_pdf.plot_all_correlations_**

#### 4. Getting Help

To learn more about we can **_help(PangoroDataFrame)_** to get detailed information about the package and each function included.

### License
[MIT](https://pypi.org/project/pangoro/)

### Background
Work on pangoro started in 2022 by a group of IE University students and has been under active development since then.

### Contributing to pangoro  
All contributions, bug reports, bug fixes, documentation improvements, enhancements, and ideas are welcome.
Please contact us on [GitHub](https://github.com/ieuTeamD/pangoro)<br />
